.if n .ds Q \&"
.if t .ds Q ``
.if n .ds U \&"
.if t .ds U ''
.tr \&
.nr bi 0
.nr ll 0
.nr el 0
.de DS
..
.de DE
..
.de Pp
.ie \\n(ll>0 \{\
.ie \\n(bi=1 \{\
.nr bi 0
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=0 \{.IP \\(bu\}
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=1 \{.IP \\n+(e\\n(el.\}
.\}
.el .sp 
.\}
.el \{\
.ie \\nh=1 \{\
.LP
.nr h 0
.\}
.el .PP 
.\}
..
.TH compare

.SH NAME

.Pp
\f(CRcompare\fP
.SH SYNOPSIS

.Pp
\f(CR/usr/local/seq/bin/compare\fP \fIold getlocs file\fP \fInew getlocs file\fP
.Pp
.Pp
.SH DESCRIPTION

.Pp
This program compares \fBgetlocs\fP outputs from two 
\fBsplice\fP assemblies of a project that have been made at different times.
Typically, \fBmat\fP numbers assigned by \fBsplice\fP are 
highly sensitive to the details of the input sequences, making
comparison difficult because many otherwise unchanged mats will 
receive different numbers in the assembly.
\fBcompare\fP reassigns mat numbers in the new getcmnts file to reflect
similarities and differences between the new and old assemblies.
.Pp
While the \fBgetlocs\fP files contain much assembly information,
\fBcompare\fP simply considers mats sets of sequences and analyzes
old and new assemblies by examining set memberships.
Sequences are considered the same if and only if their \fBgel-lane\fP
designations are the same --- All other name information is disregarded.
If a sequence has been determined to be a chimera and has been
split into two new sequences with \fIa\fP and \fIb\fP extensions,
the sequences are considered \fIdifferent\fP from the original.
.Pp
\fBcompare\fP detects the following relationships between old and new mats:
.Pp
.nr ll +1
.nr t\n(ll 0
.if \n(ll>1 .RS
.nr bi 1
.Pp
\fBequivalences\fP
.Pp
A mat in the old assembly and a mat in the new assembly are considered
\fIequivalent\fP if they both have exactly the same set of sequences
(barring sequences which have been removed from or added to the project
in the time between the two assemblies).
.nr bi 1
.Pp
\fBfusions\fP
.Pp
A mat in the new assembly is a \fIfusion\fP of two or more mats 
in the old assembly if and only if the sequence set of the new mat is
exactly the sum of the sequence sets in the old mats (again, disregarding
sequences which have been removed from or added to the project after
the time of the old assembly).
.nr bi 1
.Pp
\fBfissions\fP
.Pp
A mat from the old assembly \fIfissions\fP into two or more mats
in the new assembly if and only if the sequence set of the old mat is
exactly the sum of the sequence sets in the mats (once again, 
disregarding sequences that have been removed from or added to 
the project after the old assembly).
.nr bi 1
.Pp
\fBappearances\fP
.Pp
A mat in the new assembly \fIappears\fP if none of its member
sequences are present \fIanywhere\fP in the old assembly 
(i.e. if all of its sequences have been added after the old assembly 
was made).
.nr bi 1
.Pp
\fBdisappearances\fP
.Pp
A mat in the old assembly \fIdisappears\fP if none of its member
sequences are present \fIanywhere\fP in the new assembly (i.e.
if all its sequences have been removed after the old assembly was made).
.nr bi 1
.Pp
\fBcomplexes\fP
.Pp
These are combinations of partial fusions and fissions.
Basically, these are mats which do not fall into any of the above
categories.
A mat from the old assembly is either completely \fIcontained\fP by
a single mat in the new assembly, or \fIsplits\fP into two or more
mats in the new assembly.
.if \n(ll>1 .RE
.nr ll -1
.Pp
.Pp
.Pp
.SH AVAILABILITY

.Pp
Currently, on
\fBgenome5 (http://genome5.bio.bnl.gov/Software/Local/)\fP
,
genome4, genome1, ospa, ospb
.Pp
.SH CAVEATS

.Pp
Mat-renaming capabilities have not been added to the new version.
.Pp
The current version does not recognize mat names like block11a or new1.
It therefore will not accept one of it's own output files as input.
This can be fixed if necessary.
.Pp
.DS
.sp 
.ft CR
.nf
$Revision$
$Date$
.DE
.fi 
.ec
.ft P
.sp
.Pp
